API Spec (#124)
navapbc/labs-decision-support-tool: docs/app/api_spec.md

# API Specification: Assistive Chatbot Integration
This API enables the integration of an Assistive Chatbot with other products.

> ## Endpoint: `POST /chatbot`

Reviewer: Can this be a verb instead?
```suggestion
## Endpoint: `POST /query`
```

Author: Definitely. What about `chat` though -- slightly more specific than `query`. (I don't feel strongly -- go for whatever you think is best.)

Author: Oh wait we already have `/chat` for the frontend, nevermind 🤦

Reviewer: Yup!

### Description
This endpoint accepts a query from a navigator and responds with a generated answer from the chatbot, along with relevant citations. Each response includes auditing fields to monitor usage by user, organization, and customer.

---

### Request Parameters

**Headers**

- **Authorization**: Bearer token for authenticating API access.

**Parameters**

Note: we will defer making any of these required for now
- **user_id** _(string, optional)_: Unique identifier for the navigator within ImagineLA

> - **agency** _(string, optional)_: Identifier for the organization the navigator belongs to

Reviewer: For consistency with other fields:
```suggestion
- **agency_id** _(string, optional)_: Identifier for the organization the navigator belongs to
```

# API Specification: Assistive Chatbot Integration

> This API enables the integration of an Assistive Chatbot into the ImagineLA product.

Reviewer: Don't specify ImagineLA so that this is reusable.
```suggestion
This API enables the integration of an Assistive Chatbot with other the products.
```

## Endpoint: `POST /chatbot`

### Description

> This endpoint accepts a query from a navigator and responds with a generated answer from the chatbot, along with relevant citations. Each response includes tracking fields to monitor usage by user, organization, and customer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This endpoint accepts a query from a navigator and responds with a generated answer from the chatbot, along with relevant citations. Each response includes auditing fields to monitor usage by user, organization, and customer.
```

```json
[
  {
    "role": "string",       // Author of message, one of "user", "assistant", or "system"
    "content": "string"     // Message contents
  },
  ...
]
```
---

### Responses

#### Success Response (200 OK)

**Body**

```json
{
  "response_id": "string",                   // Unique identifier for the chatbot response
  "response_text": "string",                 // Generated answer from the chatbot in Markdown format
  "citations": [                             // Ordered list of citations with mappings to the Markdown response text
    {
      "citation_id": "string",               // Unique ID for each citation
      "source_id": "string",                 // Identifier for the source document
      "source_name": "string",               // Name of the source document
      "page_number": "integer",              // Page number where the citation is found, if available
      "uri": "string",                       // URL link to the source, if available
      "headings": ["string"],                // Headings within the document, if available
      "citation_text": "string"              // Extracted citation text

>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    },
    ...
```
